The workspace filesystems /p/work1 and /p/work2 on topaz are high-performance
parallel file systems intended for use in batch jobs.  The home directories,
ie /p/home/$USER, are intended for compilation, backup submit script storage,
and storage for binaries, NOT execution.  The workspace filesystems are easily
accessible using the environment variables $WORKDIR and $WORKDIR2.

The file systems are each composed of 432 OSTs (raid sets) starting from 0
across which files are striped for improved I/O performance.  Each OST is
roughly 14.5 TBytes in size.

By default, files created in $WORKDIR and $WORKDIR2 are striped across 4 OSTs.
The default stripe (i.e. block) size is 1 MByte (1024**2).

The syntax of the lfs command to set striping is

  lfs setstripe --size stripe-width  --index OST-start-index --count stripe-count filename-or-directory

where
  stripe-width is in bytes
  OST-start-index - use -1 (round-robin assignment)
  count - default of 4

Alternatively,

  lfs setstripe -S stripe-width  -i OST-start-index -c stripe-count filename-or-directory

may also be used.


The setstripe command can be used to set single characteristics.  For example,
to change the default stripe count on a working directory, say,

  lfs setstripe --count new-count tmp-directory

This will change the striping only of new files created in that directory.  It
will NOT change the striping of resident files.


To discover the striping properties of individual files or directories, the
getstripe command can be used:

  lfs getstripe --size  --index --count  file-or-directory

Usage to determine a single properly is similar to setstripe.  For example,

  lfs getstripe --count file-or-directory


Users who generate files larger than 10 GBytes, or many small files, should
consider changing the default striping to gain performance and to prevent
over-usage of individual OSTs.  Very large files can fill individual OSTs,
but spreading the files over more OSTs will help prevent this potentially
harmful situation.

SGI recommends the following stripe counts depending on file sizes:

                        Stripe
        Size            Count
  -----------------------------
         <= 1MB            1
     1 MB - 10 GB          4
    10 GB - 100 GB         8
   101 GB - 512 GB        10
   513 GB - 1 TB          36
   1.1 TB - 2 TB          72
   2.1 TB - 4 TB         144
   4.1 TB - 8 TB         216

Please consult the HPC Help Desk for files larger than 8 TB or compute tasks
requiring more than 432 OSTs.


There are two methods to set stripe parameters for files: 1) set the striping
on their parent directory, so that all files susequently created in it inherit
that striping, and 2) set the striping on individual files before any data is
written to them.


1) Set striping on a directory.

Example:

   cd $WORKDIR
   mkdir LargeDir
   lfs setstripe LargeDir 1048576 -1 16

In this example, the new directory name is LargeDir, its stripe width is set to
the default of 1 Mbyte (1048576 bytes), the system will decide which OSTs to use
(-1), and files will be striped across 16 OSTs.

Note that changing the striping on a directory does not automatically change the
striping on files that already exist in the directory.  Only new files created
in the directory after the stripe change would inherit the new characteristics.

2) Set striping for an individual file.

Example:

   cd $WORKDIR
   lfs setstripe LargeFile 1048576 -1 8

Assuming the file LargeFile does not already exist, the lfs command will create
the file with 0 bytes.  The newly-created file can be written to or copied to.
It will be striped over any 8 OSTs with a stripe width of 1 MByte.

Note that changing the striping on an existing file has no effect.

To change the number of stripes used for a file, the file's name must be
changed to a temporary name, then set the stripes for the original filename,
and then copy the file from temporary name to original filename.  Afterwards,
delete the old file.

For example, suppose filename is stored across 4 stripes in 1 MB segments.
To change it to 8 stripes in 1 MB segments:

  mv filename tempname
  lfs setstripe filename 1048576 -1 8
  cp tempname filename
  rm tempname


Additional Notes:

Stripe (i.e. block) sizes should be multiples of 64.

Stripe sizes less than 1 Mbyte are discouraged.  Sometimes stripe sizes of
2 MB or 4 MB are effective.

The lfs command can be used within batch jobs.

Please review http://www.erdc.hpc.mil/docs/Tips/lustreStripingOnTopaz.html
for more information.

